### Habitat One - Air and Water cycling

The first iteration of the Habitat aims at creating the test bed(The Box) and running a qualifying experiment for four weeks.

For the qualifying experiment The Box will be loaded with food to support one person for 28 days, 1 cubic meter of drinkable water, materials to help maintain and expand the habitat to be used by the occupant for the duration of the experiment and supplementary oxygen for use in emergencies.

The environment will then be sealed and must maintain internal life supporting conditions on it's own.

During this phase of the experiment electricity and light will be externally provided to The Box and solid waste will be allowed out.

During this experiment a loss of water and air of up to 20% is acceptable.

A resupply exchange is planned at the 14th day, the total materials transferred to The Box during the exchange must not exceed 8 kilograms of tools and working materials and 2 kilograms of edibles.

### Habitat Two - Waste management and Power generation

The second iteration of the Habitat aims at improving life support systems and implementing waste management. It will run for 28 days.

For this experiment The Box will be loaded with food to support one person for 28 days, 2 cubic meters of drinkable water in anticipation of Habitat Three, materials to help maintain and expand the habitat to be used by the occupant for the duration of the experiment but **NO** supplementary oxygen.

The environment will then be sealed and must maintain internal life supporting conditions on it's own.

During this phase of the experiment electricity will not be provided and must be generated by The Box itself. Light will still be externally provided. Solid waste must be processed within the environment and only gaseous byproducts will be allowed out.

During this experiment a loss of water and air of up to 5% is acceptable.

A resupply exchange is planned at the 14th day, the total materials transferred to The Box during the exchange must not exceed 8 kilograms of tools and working materials and 2 kilograms of edibles.

### Habitat Three - Food production and Waste recycling

The third iteration of the Habitat aims at implementing sustainable food production within The Box and testing the longevity of the design, this experiment will run for at least 90 days and might run for up to 360 days provided we manage a viable crew exchange method.

For this experiment The Box will be loaded with food to support one person for 14 days, 4 cubic meters of drinkable water and materials to help maintain and expand the habitat to be used by the occupant for the duration of the experiment.

The environment will then be sealed and must maintain internal life supporting conditions on it's own.

During this phase of the experiment light will still be externally provided but all else must be managed internally. Nothing will be allowed to enter or leave the environment during the experiment except for the resupply exchanges.

During this experiment loss of water and air may reduce the planned duration and therefore must be bellow 0.1%.

Resupply exchanges are planned at 30 days, 120 days and 300 days, the total materials transferred to the environment during the exchanges must not exceed 18 kilograms of tools and working materials and 2 kilograms of edibles.

### Habitat Four - Long haul

During habitat 3 we'll plan the details for a following iteration that should see at least four occupants and resupply exchanges every 780 days to simulate the Earth-Mars launch windows.